Hey welcome back.
Next we're going to talk about anchors and boundaries.
There's only three that we're going to talk about here.
And the first one is the carrot.
It means it indicates the start of a string or the start of a line.
So I'm actually going to remove our test stuff that we've had at this point and let's say we're testing
to see if something is a phone number.
So I'll have a phone number here.
Let's see what's Derocher 8:28 that the two do do that.
OK.
So that's our phone number.
And this should be review at this point.
Fast forward.
OK.
So three digits space three digits optional dash 4 digits.
Let's say that I'm working in Python and I want to write a function that takes a string and it returns
true if it's a phone number we'll call it is phone number or returns false if it's not will we would
use something like this.
But the problem that we have right now this string could have a bunch of other stuff in it too but it
still matches the phone number part.
So if we wanted to only match something where it was exactly a phone number and nothing else.
It starts with the phone number.
For example we add in the carrot here.
So we put that carrot and it means the string has to start with all of this.
So this no longer matches if I get rid of it though it now matches.
And the opposite to denote the end of the string.
You can use the dollar sign.
So if we wanted to make sure that the string was only this pattern and nothing else than the dollar
sign there is no longer to match that because of this MSDS.
But now it does match that.
So these are important ones especially when we're working in Python.
It's one thing if you just want to know if a given string contains a pattern.
That's another if you want to know that if a given string is only that pattern it's only an email which
you know for validating an e-mail address.
We're going to probably send an e-mail to that address so we don't want to be looking for you know something
like Kolta at gmail dot com buried within something else.
We want to make sure that it's only that e-mail address.
So these are very useful.
The carrot and the dollar sign.
This means the beginning this means the end.
One other thing I'll point out is slash backslash B which is a word boundary.
So early on in this section let me just type a sentence.
Hello world.
I am typing stuff.
OK.
If I wanted to select all the words what we saw in the beginning was that we could do something like
this we have a word character one or more times.
And it's hard to tell but this is like seeing each individual character and then what I did or say put
a space before and a space afterward.
And now this is giving us the words the groups of weird characters that have spaces on both sides.
But that's not really what we want because these are all words as well.
So instead of a space we can use the word boundary character backslash be at the beginning and backslash
be at the end.
And this will mean a space or the end of a line or the beginning of a line.
It's called word boundaries so in this case you know we're matching hello.
Even though the left side doesn't have a space it's a word boundary here and here.
Same thing for world same thing for I.
All this stuff.
There's either a space or an end or a beginning of line.
So that's one way of selecting words.
If you wanted to do something like that and that's actually all I wanted to show in this video.
Anchors and boundaries.
These you'll see all the time in particular.